you guys may not have noticed that in my
communication to vegan Ava I commented
to her that she she boasts of spending
thirty five hours she boasts of spending
many many hours making her her YouTube
videos
I said well really I record my videos in
like ten minutes during my lunch break
at school today I've got ten minutes and
this is actually my lunch break at
school Maude vegan just put up a video
discussing the question of whether or
not vegetarianism and veganism are
supported by the Christian Bible in any
way it's a question that's been asked
and answered many many times Christians
Jews Muslims I have actually a couple
develop Muslims within my patreon
channel Muslims who are very interested
in trying to promote veganism within the
Muslim dominated world you guys may or
may not have heard that I was formerly a
scholar of Buddhism and of the sort of
most austere most orthodox form of
Buddhism Theravada Buddhism and the most
clearly textual based aspect of that
tradition so the aspect of Buddhist
tradition that really cares about the
Buddhist Bible the ancient written Canon
that defines what Buddhism was supposed
to be or that used to define it in the
ancient world it's these kinds of
questions what vegetarianism and
veganism are not new to me in short if
you actually do a survey of the world's
major philosophical traditions the
strongest tradition for vegetarianism of
some kind is not Christianity it's not
Buddhism and it's not Hinduism either
you'll actually find it in ancient
Greece and Rome in ancient Greece and
Rome you find some philosophers this is
pre-christian pagan ancient Greece and
Rome you find some philosophers arguing
for vegetarianism on genuinely ethical
grounds and you find others arguing for
it on supernatural grounds superstitious
grounds let's say and then you find some
that are kind of offering a hybrid of
the two
although it was a minority tradition in
Athens and Rome we very clearly
see that the full range of issues was
debated and considered philosophically
in that Millia the basis for
vegetarianism and veganism in Buddhism
is in a word air SATs and most people
try to cover this up by misinterpreting
the intention of the author and looking
at the original text I say this because
Christians and Jews have been doing the
same thing especially lately in trying
to canonize a totally modern set of
ideas about animal rights ecology ethics
vegetarianism veganism so you know the
Buddhist Canon is full of animals
similes metaphors you know a passage
that describes a group of elephants is
almost never interested in the elephants
themselves elephants get talked about as
a parable for something else but I mean
elephants monkeys peacocks every
conceivable animal from ancient India
has stories told about it in the
Buddhist Canon but the idea even of
vegetarianism or veganism or of not
exploiting animals is simply not a
priority for the authors of that Canon
doesn't mean there's absolutely zero
about it I can provide you below this
video with a link to an article I wrote
about that but it is the worst kind of
intellectual dishonesty to look at a
parable about an elephant and try to
pretend that this is an argument for the
importance of treating elephants with
decency or not eating meat or
what-have-you
no you know the author or the poet a lot
of it is poetry and Buddhism the poet is
using the image of an elephant to
clarify something else now it's a great
shame that people are taught to repeat
this stupid notion this inane notion
that we can never know the intent of the
author you know this is people just
repeat this nonsensically you know if
you're looking at private correspondence
between two lovers
full of some kind of secret code and you
know allusions to secret events and
their personalized okay maybe that's an
important point that we can't know that
he attended maybe at this fine level but
whether I've been reading political
documents like commands given by Mao
Zedong or commands given by Richard
Nixon
you know official political statements
or when I've been studying official
religious statements you know from the
ancient Buddhist Canon or what-have-you
I have never once been in a situation of
sincerely and genuinely seeing that this
this issue of not being able to know the
intention of the author was a problem
never once on the contrary what I have
seen in both instances both in politics
and religion are modern interpreters
using this as an excuse to obfuscate the
text to baffle and distract modern
people like you and I from what's really
going on what really matters in the text
so for example there is a passage in the
Pali Canon that makes use of a very
evocative poetic image of looking at the
edge of a sharp knife in the original
language in Pali it is quite a well
written quite a nice piece of text it's
quite a nice work of art what I'm gonna
say but it draws your change the fact
that when you look at a sharp knife and
when you look at a dull knife you cannot
truly see its edge you can't tell by
looking at it which knife is sharp and
which knife is dull and the point is you
learn which knife is truly the sharpest
by cutting you know the point of the
text the intention of the author is
totally clear it's talking with the fact
that you could have a bunch of Buddhist
monks we're all wearing the same uniform
bunch of guys with shaved heads wearing
robes you can't tell who's a good monk
and who's a bad monk just by looking at
them who has really accomplished the
discipline who's truly a disciplined
monk or who's truly uh and then
lightened monk whatever you want to say
but this case it actually it's
explicitly about discipline not not
wisdom or something so recall but you
see who's really disciplined in practice
like the knife
cutting with a knife cutting with a
knife shows you how sharp it really is
and maybe comparing it to another okay I
have seen that passage misinterpreted in
the most nebulous and bizarre ways by
modern readers by people you know alive
today who try to turn it into some kind
of metaphorical metaphysical statement
about the nature of transcendental
meditation try to make it into something
it isn't and it's just a hundred percent
intellectually dishonest and to hide
behind the notion that you can't know
the intention the author is just a lie
and of course I've seen that with people
making excuses for communism who look at
a piece of text from Mao Zedong or
Joseph Stalin and who pretend oh well
you know we're never gonna know what
this really meant
I mean sometimes you're talking about a
piece of paper that says you know yes
kill all these people yes you know this
is the policy is to liquidate or
eliminate these people and no I mean
it's not this is not a poetic image this
is not private correspondence talking
about something confusing these are not
the issues now it is no surprise that
lifted up by the wings of faith and
self-righteousness so many people would
like to reinterpret Christianity and
reinterpret Judaism have already
mentioned Buddhism as being
fundamentally Pro vegetarian actually
the strongest case the the the gap
that's easiest to close that mention
this many times much channel the huge
advantage here really goes to the Hindus
Hindus and Giants in theory could get
their act together and become vegan
although historically they're not really
vegan but they could they could make
that step very easily so look you know
in a word yes I think these approaches
are even if they're
well-intentioned but they've also so far
been failures and I think what we really
have to worry about as vegans is what
happens if one of these is successful
like this may sound bizarre but what if
there's a schism within the Catholic
Church in Ireland and 10% of all the
Catholic churches in Ireland declare
themselves members of the new reformed
Catholic
Church that among other things is vegan
like this is how they change Catholicism
now many of you will laugh or just it
just seems so bizarre it seems super but
that would be success okay
success is not a handful of idiots on
the internet giving each other the
thumbs up in facebook repeating their
ludicrous reinterpretations of the Bible
as if the Bible were sincerely concerned
with animal ethics animal rights
veganism ecology etc those ideas are not
in the Bible and you can forcibly
misinterpret those texts as if those
authors were really sincerely concerned
with that because of course the image of
an ox in the field is there there are
all kinds of images involving animals
but I mean it's an incredibly low
priority incredibly low interest for the
authors compared to all the other themes
that are dealt with such as the
importance of you know the the Jewish
people conquering their neighbors I mean
a very large percentage the Old
Testament is concerned with the the
Jewish people conquering their neighbors
and then forcing them to attend the
Feast of the tabernacle these are
aspects of the ancient religion that
have dropped out of modern usage when
was the last time you got invited to the
Feast of the tabernacle I asked you um a
lot of weird stuff in in the Old
Testament nobody want nobody's really
comfortable talking about anymore
look as easy as it is to poke fun at
these efforts I think the bigger
question we have to ask is what
condition will secular veganism be in if
or when one of these groups exceeds
already the supreme master Ching hai
group has been massively successful so
the Church of supreme master Ching hai
is a new religion that owns the world's
largest chain of vegan restaurants and
those restaurants are staffed primarily
by volunteers because those volunteers
are told to have the magical belief in
karmic rewards for their working at the
restaurant so they're going to be
reincarnated at a better level of heaven
she teaches about plural heavens you can
level up by volunteering to work for
free at her restaurants if you don't
have enough money they can pay you but
then you get less karma and
believe me the math is precise she tells
you exactly how many karma points you
get for each deed it's a but you can
google this supreme master Ching hai and
many of you have eaten in those
restaurants without being aware that it
is operated by a new religious group in
this way but look they've had tremendous
success despite several strategic
disadvantages compared to say the
Catholic Church in Ireland if the
Catholic Church in Ireland actually had
that schism that would be a huge change
in the world if there were a reformed
group within Hinduism or Buddhism which
are much more likely than Catholicism do
it that really came out and said okay
we're a Reformation within this religion
and among other things we're gonna get
rid of the ambiguity we're gonna say
look doesn't matter what the ancient
texts say here's our modern dictum is
that veganism is the solution for right
now what happens then hahaha you might
have pie in the sky you might you might
have high hopes for this but for me
actually I see it as a challenge that
currently we're very ill-prepared to
deal with currently the state of secular
veganism veganism as a political
movement veganism simply as a
non-religious animal rights ecology
ethic ethics based movement is so weak
that actually that probably be a
challenge we could not cope with so my
hope is that before any major religious
group starts co-opting veganism in a
powerful way because already happen in a
small scale with supreme master Ching
hai really has believe me go to Taiwan
you'll see the power and influence that
that religion has tremendous before that
happens I hope the rest of us get our
act together so we are neither co-opted
by nor discredited by some new religious
movement or some cult that could very
easily have a higher level of
organization and a higher level of
credence than we ourselves now have